---
title: Unity Tutorial
type: tutorial
---

# Unity Tutorial

## GUI Instructions

1.  Start a new 3D project
1.  Insert $\rightarrow$ 3d object $\rightarrow$ cube
    
    Notes:
    
    i.  position scaling is relative to the world
    i. rotation is in degrees
    i. if you change scaling of the cube, everything internal scales to that.

1.  Change cube dimensions to .1x.1x.1
1.  Using F2, rename to "body"
1.  Repeat steps 2-4 for "foot".
1.  Repeat steps 2-4 for "ground", but make its dimensions 10x10x0.1 instead
1.  Add rigid bodies to everything which needs physics to work on it ("body" and "foot")
<!--1.  top and bottom don't move-->
1.  Click on "body" $\rightarrow$ add component $\rightarrow$ physics $\rightarrow$ rigid body
1. Set dynamic properties of the "body" and "foot"
    1. Set mass
        1. mass of "body": ~10kg
        1. mass of "foot": ~.1kg
    1. Set drag and angular drag components to zero
    1. check the box to enable gravity. leave the rest alone.
1. add a spring between "body" and "foot".
1. go to "body" and add component
1. physics $\rightarrow$ spring joint
    1. indicate connection("foot")
    1. automatically sets where it's connected on both bodies
    1. set the connection points to match the centers of mass of the bodies. then adjust the natural length of the spring.
    1. set max and min distance to 0
    1. enable collision permits collision to be considered
    1. set break force and break torque to infinity
    1. leave scaling alone.
    1. adjust stiffness to be realistic (in this case, 100-1000 worked).  You may have to set your timestep to .001 or smaller to get higher stiffness to work stably.
1. adjust the camera so you can see better. click on it and then adjust its position by dragging the arrows in move mode.
1. can add a constant force to your simulation. add component.

## Scripting Instructions

### Steps

1. starting with an empty project
1. add empty object, add component, script.
1. name the script "pogo stick"
1. when you double click on the scritpt it opens up visual studio
1. add a function:

    ```private void FixedUpdate()```

1. create top, bottom, ground bodies
1. add rigid bodies to the two of them
1. add the spring.
1. edit the transform properties of each body
    1. position
    1. rotation
    1. scale
1. change the physics simulation quality by setting delta time to .001s
1. run the physics simulator. pause allows you to analyze what you set, you can change values and see the effect. (but stopping the simulation loses those values)
1. add a damper to provide a realistic decay
1. add a force to compress the spring. then stop.
1. add a force to assist in the upward push.
1. now add some variables to track the position of things.
1. how do you log or track to debug?
    1. create a file stream for writing files, write to csv.
    1. have to compose your string before you writeline.

### Scripting tips
* unity doesn't like doubles, cast as floats.


## General FAQ

1. how do you define friction?
    1. create a physics material then apply that to your bodies.
