---
bibliography: ../bibliography.bib
csl: ../ieee.csl
title: Origami-Inspired Mechanisms
---

# Origami-Inspired Mechanisms

This chapter is meant to get you making by using your hands.  Have you ever made a popup book?  Researchers are using concepts from popup books and origami to make novel mechanisms

* Origami - the art of folding paper to make shapes
* Kirigami - the art of cutting and folding paper to make shapes
* Origami-Inspired robots - using folding, cutting, gluing, etc to make mechanisms and robots.

Popup books much more closely resemble the sheer number of fabrication strategies used to create origami-inspired devices.  A number of researchers prefer to use the term '"pop-up book" mechanisms'<!-- Fix -->, while in this book you will also see the term "laminate mechanisms" or "laminate robots" used to describe the broad range of techniques used to create these robots.

## Origami Background
Origami is the art of folding paper, invented in Japan.  Classic and Modern Origami techniques have produced a larg number of forms and shapes throughout the centuries.  Origami has been the source of a number of innovations that can be applied to robots and mechanisms. 

Computational Origami is a relatively recent addition, using mathematical formalisms to understand and describe the complexity of folding paper.  Recent contributions include formalisms for deconstructing any 3D shape into an origami fold pattern, and proofs demonstrating that origami alone can be used to create any shape.  A nice survey on computational origami topics can be found in [@Demaine2005]. Work includes theory on popup books [@Lee1996], work on decomposing shapes for automatic flattening [@Huang1996],[@Demaine2013], origami simulation software [@Tachi2009; @Tachi2013] popup book generators [@Li2010; @Abel], carton folding methods using constraints [@Mullineux2010], an FEA-like analysis of folded structures [@Schenk2010; @Schenk2011; @Schenk2013], and use of that simulation approach to optimize pattens and topologies[@Fuchi2014].  This has resulted in software for turning  arbitrary 3d shapes into origami patterns [@Tachi2010; @Saito2015].


### Things to know: 

* The Miura fold, named after <!--TODO--> has been applied to a wide number of problems including [@Evans2015; @Dudte2016a].
* Common issues related to the non-idealities of folding material include the fact that material thickness can create limitations in the size and type of geometries that can be realized.  This is addressed in [@Zirbel2013] amongst other papers.
* Multilayer approaches include approaches that add flex circuits in order to sense and respond [@Demaine2013a].





<!--TODO: Find Ref-->

## Pop-up Books

Pop-up books are popular as children's books, and use a number of techniques and kinematics to create a seemingly limitless combination of form and motion. 

## Key differences

One of the main differences between traditional origami and origami-inspired robots is that the folds used to create static shapes in traditional origami are used instead to make living hinges.  In traditional mechanism design, folds are a direct analogy to pin joints, aka pure rotational joints.  

Pure rotation and pure translation comprise the two fundamental single degree-of-freedom (DOF) joint types that make up the hierarchy of more complex joint types.

<!--
TODO: Add figure from paper about joint types.
TODO: Reference basic joint types paper.
-->

## Serial Mechanisms

Serial mechanisms are traditionally the most common type of robotic devices, in that they represent the most common layout for robotic arms and other humanoids.  In a typical serial configuration, rigid moving links are joined to each other one after the other, with single-DOF joints separating them.

While these devices are commonly found throughout robotics, they are not ideal for making affordable, rapid prototyped robots out of paper, because they are susceptible to issues with compliance and slop.
<!--
TODO: use formal word for slop.
-->
With high stiffness materials like steel or carbon fiber, and by using precision machining techniques to fabricate serial robots, the impact of this design topology can be reduced.  For soft and inexpensive material systems like cardboard and paper, however, the compliance built into these mechanisms must be dealt with through different design decisions to start with.  Thus, parallel mechanisms are often a better choice for designing foldable robots;  with their multiple kinematic pathways from ground to the end-effector, these devices are often stiffer and exhibit less error.  

Another good reason to use parallel mechanisms is that they permit the creation of mechanical transmissions without the use of any other mechanical design elements (gears, belts, pulleys, or tendons).  Due to the kinematics that parallel mechanisms can encode directly in how links of different links are joined together.  This makes parallel mechanisms ideal for creating mechanical transmissions in a simple and low-cost way, with only links and joints.

## Planar Parallel Mechanisms

One of the simplest and most straightforward parallel mechanisms you can make with origami-inspired techniques is the four-bar linkage.  Despite having four joints it is a single-DOF mechanism.  While this may not seem intuitive, at this point in the book it must suffice to say that joining two ends of a parallel mechanism together into a loop consumes a number of degrees of freedom.

Four-bar mechanisms have been used in a number of traditional robotic devices, such as underactuated robotic hands, robotic legs, etc. 

Parallelograms are 1:1 transmissions, as the input and output translation/rotation is the same.  This makes them useful for transcribing motion from one place to another without a change in that motion.  This can be seen in a variety of motion stage designs, in common reading lights, etc.

Four-bar linkages with different links can be used to create highly nonlinear 

<!--
TODO:
Reference McCarthy Book
-->

<!--
TODO:
Check pantographs statement
-->

<!--TODO: Chapter X will discuss the kinematics of simple four-bar mechanisms in more detail.-->

<!--
TODO: Chapter X will discuss numerical, graphical, and parametric four-bar design strategies for four-bar linkages.
-->

## Spherical Parallel Mechamisms

<!--
TODO: Picture of a spherical mechanism.
-->

Spherical mechanisms are typified by a single vertex with multiple joints radiating out from it.  Like planar mechanisms, the simplest spherical mechanism is the four-bar spherical mechanism, which, like the planar four-bar mechanism, has only one degree of freedom (for the same basic explanation).  The number of DOF's increases for each additional joint added to the 

Six-bar spherical mechanmisms are another interesting mechanism, as they form a traditinoal ball-joint, which is capable of independent rotation in three axes.  This mechanism has been used in foldable devices to create self-leveling feet[@] or as unactuated passive joints[@].
<!--
TODO: fix ball-joint term
-->

## Sarrus Mechanisms 

<!--
TODO: Sarrus Mechanism image.
-->

Sarrus mechanisms are interesting because they permit straight-line prismatic translation from a device that's composed soley of rotational hinges.  While a variety of quasi-straight line mechanisms exist, the specific kinematic constraints of this mechanism permits pure translation.

## Other Mechanisms

A variety of other joint types are described in [@]
<!--
TODO: Fix ref for howell and magleby paper
-->

## Flat-Foldability

Flat foldability is a concept directly related to the idea that traditional origami starts with a flat sheet of paper.  From this assumption comes a rule that any mechanism designed starting with a flat sheet of material must be flat in at least one state.  Without adding cutting or joining techniques to the mix of prototyping strategies, this creates a formal constraint in the design of planar or spherical mechanisms.

<!--
TODO: Add picture of flat-foldability constraint example in spherical and parallel
-->


## Complex Topologies

<!--
TODO: Picture of complex origami mechanism network
-->

Like any mechanical system, origami-inspired mechanisms may be composed by joining multiple series and parallel chains together into a complex network.  This concept is highly compatible with planar cutting techniques made possible by laser cutters and pen-plotter-style vinyl cutters, and will be formalized later in this book.  <!--TODO: Figure --> The above figure highlights an example of a complex joint network.


## Additional Fabrication Strategies

There are a number of additional simple modifications you

* Add material on a second layer
* Join two links together
* Cut a link apart
* Align two joints to create redundancy
* Un-align two joints to create rigidity

More complex modifications can include:

* joining two systems together with an origami transmission

Example Cases

* Cut apart a link of the origami network and re-connect in a different spot to break flat foldability
    * Fold over material and join a segment
    * Cut apart a link and add material in the middle
* Add a rigid constraint to a higher DOF mechanism by adding a second rigid layer
* Create a parallel mechanism by adding another layer.
* Fold up,  align, and constrain hinges to create a topology that was not present or possible in its flat state (ie four-bar)

Cutting and joining techniques, such as gluing, laminating, or stapling, can provide more ways to accomplish the same basic mechanism design in various ways.

For example, flat foldability is a typically a design limitation for prototyping strategies that only use folding.  You can fold over  anda portion of a link in order to shorten a segment and elimminate the flat-foldability constraint.  In addition, by adding material through cutting and joining, you can add length or angle to planar/spherical mechanisms. 

## Joining Strategies

| Strategy         | Comment                                                                 |
|:-----------------|:------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Glue             | Permanent.  Make sure you use the right glue for the materials          |
| Tape             | Rarely implemented well; avoid                                          |
| Stapling         | Easy, cheap, and fast. Not compatible with thicker or stiffer materials |
| Thru-hole rivets | Requires pre-planning and hole cutting. Can be robust and lower weight  |
| Thru-hole screw  | Secure but adds significant weight                                      |
 
For paper-based prototyping I highly suggest using a stapler

For pre-planned designs, thru-hole rivts are reliable, removable, and relatively low-weight.  THey permit a modular design approach and are fairly robust.  McMaster has a variety of small plastic [single-use rivets]()

<!--
TODO: Get link.
-->


## Topological Variants

With all the possibilities in folding, cutting, and joining, there are seemingly limitless ways to construct the same mechanism.  Using the techniques described above, you can see three different ways to make a four-bar mechanism.


## Assignment

1. Can you identify the number of inner loops in each mechanism?
1. Create two four bar mechanisms with the following different link lengths.  Describe the difference between the two.
1. How many degrees of freedom are in the following systems?
1. <!--TODO: Picture of several different topologies-->  what type of device is this, and how many degrees of freedom 
1. How many inner loops do you count in this network?
1. How many degrees of freedom does this system exhibit?
1. Find examples of pop-up book motion