---
bibliography: ../bibliography.bib
bibFile: data/bib.json # path relative to project root
csl: ../ieee.csl
title: Mechatronics
---

# Mechatronics

There are a variety of ways to develop code for your robot. Some might prefer writing embedded code directly on their microcontroller and testing it on their prototype. This is fine but a bug might cause you to lose your robot. Others might want to do all controls and computations on a pc and use the local microcontroller to simply receive and send data and then pass that data to and from all the online hardware This likely requires wireless communication, which adds to the component count, and eliminates

I prefer a hybrid approach. Use a pc to debug your robot, create motion profiles and control schemes, and test on the low-level platform while receiving performance data back to the pc for evaluation. When the evaluation step is complete, you can embed your final programs on the microcontroller

Most likely you will need to debug your code from a PC. For that most arduino microcontrollers have a built

## Programming

There are a variety of ways to develop code for your robot. Some might prefer writing embedded code directly on their microcontroller and testing it on their prototype. This is fine but a bug might cause you to lose your robot. Others might want to do all controls and computations on a pc and use the local microcontroller to simply receive and send
data and then pass that data to and from all the online hardware This likely requires wireless communication, which adds to the component count, and eliminates

I prefer a hybrid approach. Use a pc to debug your robot, create motion profiles and control schemes, and test on the low-level platform while receiving performance data back to the pc for evaluation. When the evaluation step is complete, you can embed your final programs on the microcontroller 

Most likely you will need to debug your code from a PC. For that most arduino microcontrollers have a built

## Microcontroller Selection Considerations


### Debugging
### Data Collection
### Wireless communication
### Footprint
### Compatibility
### Community

For the hobbyist market, Arduinos have one of the best communities. This is due to a wide range of devices that are supported


## Sensors

